             SECTION A
ANALYSIS 1

Pearson correlation coefficient is defined as measuring the strength and direction of the relationship between social class and the number of books read with a linear correlation ranging from -1 to 1, having a “significant test known as a non-parametric test” (Philip, 2012). This is why a correlation coefficient of 0.73 illustrates a relatively strong positive relationship between social class and the number of books read (Alan & Duncan, 2002). Social class is an ordinal variable that increases and the number of books read also tends to increase. It could be that there are other factors, such as individual interests, access to books, educational level, cultural background, personal interest, and family upbringing, that could influence both social class and reading habits. For example, higher social classes individuals might have more resources and opportunities for intellectual development, including access to education and a conducive home environment for reading. The researcher also demonstrates that social class and the number of books read are statistically significant when the p-value is less than 0.001, there is only a 0.1 chance in 100 that the sample was selected. This indicates that there is a very low probability of observing such a result by chance (Alan & Duncan, 2002). The lower the p-value, the stronger the evidence against the null hypothesis such as the relationship between the variables is nonsignificant. Additionally, in this case, the number of books read explained by social class has a variance of 73% is incorrect which indicates a strong positive relationship between social class and the number of books read. It is essential to consider the remaining 27% which is unexplained and may not be considered by the other factors in the study, such as individual differences in motivation, cognitive abilities, or access to alternative forms of media. The coefficient of determination is the correct one is represented as 𝑟2 is 0.732 = 0.5329 which is approximately 53.29% of the variance in the number of books read in the social class. Variance refers to the average squared difference between each data point and the mean (Mario, 2023). In this case, a higher percentage of explained variance implies a stronger relation between the variables (that social class is a strong predictor of the number of books read). However, there are limitations in this study especially in the area where 100 people that enter the public library in the researcher’s hometown is a relatively small sample size. A larger sample size, obtaining more precise estimates and enhancing the findings' generalizability to the larger population would be possible. The study only focuses on people entering a public library in the researcher’s hometown may introduce selection or sampling bias. This means that the sample may not accurately reflect or be representative of the overall population, potentially limiting the generalizability of the results to other settings or regions. Reading is of most importance in personal and intellectual development especially when examining the relationship, between social class and the number of books read in a year, they entered a public library in the researcher’s home town in other of the 100 people(Students) prepared for the interview, this can enable them to have a lot of development in there critical thinking, vocabulary, and acquisition which can promote empathy, creativity, and social understanding, that will allow them to have a lot of effort by providing greater access to libraries and quality reading materials in other for the individual from the lower social classes to improved better by having good support in there reading. Therefore, the researcher is saying that the decision has significant potency and has a high correlation coefficient, significant p-value and a clear relationship between social class and the number of books read in a year. When talking about Validity refers to mean how well the study measures what it's supposed to. The higher social classes may read more books than those from lower social classes.

ANALYSIS 2

There are two studies that the researcher has conducted to examine the correlation between income and a scale measuring interest in work. The first study demonstrated that the correlation coefficient of 0.55 (Pearson’s) between the two variables i.e. Income, and a scale measuring interest in work, is non-significant the reason is that the p-value is greater than 0.05.On the other hand, the second study reported using the same variable with a correlation coefficient of 0.46 is significant because the p-value is less than 0.001. The contrast raises a suggestion on how could the larger correlation be non-significant and the smaller correlation be substantial, there are many factors to consider in the following explanation: The first study has a large correlation coefficient, suggesting a strong relationship between income and interest in work (Fernando, 2024). The sample size might be smaller, making it more likely to have non-significant results even with a larger correlation coefficient by positively rejecting the null hypothesis and increasing the standard error (Chittaranjan,2019). In the second study, the sample size might be larger, making it more likely to identify a significant relationship with a smaller correlation coefficient to reduce the standard error. When there is an increase in sample size it is easy for the correlation coefienitient (r) to be statistically significant for instance the second study is significant because r is 0.46 and p is less than 0.001 Statistical significance is a measure of the likelihood that the observed relationship between variables is not due to chance. It is determined by comparing the observed data to what would be expected if there were no true relationships between the variables. The p-value is another factor when the significance level chosen for the analysis indicates the probability that the observed correlation occurred by chance. A key determinant of this p-value is the sample size (n). Larger sample sizes provide more reliable estimates of the population parameter and reduce the margin of error. This implies that you have a high effect size once your r value is high. Yet the low number of samples is always a problem. The p-values and the r-values measure very different things. In the first study, a significance level of 0.05 was used, meaning that the likelihood of obtaining the observed correlation coefficient by chance alone should be less than 5% which also means that there is only a 5 chance in 100 that the sample was created (Giovanni Di Leo & Francesco Sardanelli, 2020). However, in the second study, the significance level of 0.0001 was used to observe a statistically significant correlation coefficient which is mostly used. Therefore, the difference in the chosen significance level could contribute to the contrasting results between the two studies (Chittaranjan, 2019).